PLAYFUL
RETIREMENT
Fixed Annuity
Rates`
Multiple Annuity
OptionsMultiple Modes of
Annuity Payment
LIC / M1 / 2022 -23 / 30 / Eng /gid00022/gid00018/gid00019/gid00047/gid00020/gid00020/gid00024/gid00055/gid00017/gid00021
1LIC’s Jeevan Akshay-VII (UIN: 512N337V04)
(A Non-Linked, Non-Participating, 
Individual Immediate Annuity Plan)
1. Introduction:
•	 This is an Immediate Annuity plan wherein the 
Policyholder has an option to choose type of annuity 
from 10 available options on payment of a lump sum 
amount.
•	 The annuity rates are guaranteed at the inception of the 
policy and annuities are payable throughout the life time 
of Annuitant(s). 
This plan can be purchased offline as well as online.
2. Annuity Options:
The available annuity options under this plan are as under:
Option A: Immediate Annuity for life.
Option B: Immediate Annuity with guaranteed period of 5 
years and life thereafter.
Option C: Immediate Annuity with guaranteed period of 
10 years and life thereafter.
Option D: Immediate Annuity with guaranteed period of 
15 years and life thereafter.
Option E: Immediate Annuity with guaranteed period of 
20 years and life thereafter.
Option F: Immediate Annuity for life with return of 
Purchase Price.
Option G: Immediate Annuity for life increasing at a simple 
rate of 3% p.a.
Option H: Joint Life Immediate Annuity for life with a 
provision for 50% of the annuity to the Secondary 
Annuitant on death of the Primary Annuitant.
Option I: Joint Life Immediate Annuity for life with a 
provision for 100% of the annuity payable as 
long as one of the Annuitant survives. 
Option J: Joint Life Immediate Annuity for life with a 
provision for 100% of the annuity payable as 
long as one of the Annuitant survives and return 
of Purchase Price on death of last survivor.
Annuity option once chosen cannot be altered. 
3. Benefits:
Benefits payable under above options are: 
2Option Benefits
Option A •	 The annuity payments shall be made in arrears 
for as long as the Annuitant is alive, as per the 
chosen mode of annuity payment.
•	 On death of Annuitant, nothing shall be 
payable and the annuity payment shall cease 
immediately.
Option 
B,C,D,E•	 The annuity payments shall be made in arrears 
for as long as the Annuitant is alive, as per the 
chosen mode of annuity payment. 
•	 On death of the Annuitant during the 
guaranteed period of 5/10/15/20 years, the 
annuity shall be payable to the nominee(s) till 
the end of the guaranteed period.
•	 On death of the Annuitant after the guaranteed 
period, nothing shall be payable and the 
annuity payment shall cease immediately.
Option F •	 The annuity payments shall be made in arrears 
for as long as the Annuitant is alive, as per the 
chosen mode of annuity payment.
•	 On death of the annuitant, the annuity 
payment shall cease immediately and Purchase 
Price shall be payable to nominee(s) as per the 
option exercised by the Annuitant as specified 
in Para 9. 
Option G •	 The annuity payments shall be made in arrears 
for as long as the Annuitant is alive, as per the 
chosen mode of annuity payment. The annuity 
payment will be increased by a simple rate of 
3% per annum for each completed policy year.
•	 On death of annuitant nothing shall be 
payable and the annuity payment shall cease 
immediately.
Option H •	 The annuity payments shall be made in arrears 
for as long as the Primary Annuitant is alive, as 
per the chosen mode of annuity payment.
•	 On death of Primary Annuitant, 50% of the 
annuity amount shall be payable to the 
surviving Secondary Annuitant as long as 
the Secondary Annuitant is alive. The annuity 
payments will cease on the subsequent death 
of the Secondary Annuitant.
•	 If the Secondary Annuitant predeceases the 
Primary Annuitant, the annuity payments shall 
continue to be paid and will cease upon the 
death of the Primary Annuitant.
3Option I •	 100% of the annuity amount shall be paid in 
arrears for as long as the Primary Annuitant 
and/or Secondary Annuitant is alive, as per the 
chosen mode of annuity payment.
•	 On death of the last survivor, the annuity 
payments will cease immediately and nothing 
shall be payable.
Option J •	 100% of the annuity amount shall be paid in 
arrears for as long as the Primary Annuitant 
and/or Secondary Annuitant is alive, as per the 
chosen mode of annuity payment.
•	 On death of the last survivor, the annuity 
payments will cease immediately and Purchase 
Price shall be payable to the nominee(s) as per 
the option exercised by the Primary Annuitant 
as specified in Para 9. 
4. Eligibility Criteria:
i. Minimum Purchase Price*:
Age at entry
(in completed years)Minimum Purchase Price
25 years to 29 years  `10,00,000/- 
30 years and above  `1,00,000/- subject to Minimum 
Annuity as specified below
•	 Note: The above mentioned minimum purchase 
price would be increased appropriately to meet 
minimum annuity criterion as specified below.
•	 For Purchase Price less than `1,50,000/-,annuity 
rates given under this plan shall be reduced with 
Reduction Factors as given in Para 7 below.
ii. Maximum Purchase Price: No Limit
iii. Minimum Age at Entry : 25 years (completed) subject  
   to minimum Purchase Price 
    as specified under 4(i) above
iv. Maximum Age at Entry  : 85 years (completed)  
  except Option F
   100 years (completed) 
  for Option F
4v. Minimum Annuity* :
Annuity 
ModeMonthly QuarterlyHalf-
yearlyAnnual
Minimum 
Annuity`1,000 per 
month`3,000 per 
quarter`6,000 per 
half year`12,000 
per annum
Joint Life: The joint life annuity can be taken between any two 
lineal descendant/ascendant of a family (i.e. Grandparent, 
Parent, Children, Grandchildren) or spouse or siblings.
*Exceptional cases where minimum Purchase Price 
and minimum annuity  as specified above shall not be 
applicable:
i. If the plan has been purchased for the benefit of 
dependant person with disability(Divyangjan) as 
specified in Para 9.iii below, the proposal shall be allowed 
without any restriction on minimum annuity and the 
minimum Purchase Price under such cases shall be shall 
be `50,000/-. In such cases, the annuity rates shall be 
applicable without any reduction factor as specified in 
Para 7.
ii. If the plan has been purchased on exit by the subscribers 
of NPS regulated by the Pension Fund Regulatory and 
Development Authority (PFRDA) as specified in Para 
9.ii below, the restriction on minimum annuity and the 
minimum Purchase Price shall be as per PFRDA Rules and 
Regulations as amended from time to time.
5. Mode of Annuity payment:
 The modes of annuity available are yearly, half-yearly, 
quarterly, and monthly. The Annuity shall be payable in 
arrears i.e. the annuity payment shall be after 1 year, 6 months, 
3 months and 1 month from the date of commencement of 
policy depending on whether the mode of annuity payment 
is Yearly, Half yearly, Quarterly and Monthly respectively. 
6. Incentives:
The following incentives are available under this plan:
i. Incentive for higher purchase price:
 Incentive for higher purchase price by way of increase 
in the annuity rate is provided for four slabs of purchase 
price  i) `5,00,000 to `9,99,999 ii) `10,00,000 to `24,99,999 
iii) `25,00,000 to `99,99,999 iv) `1,00,00,000 and above.
 
 The incentive for higher purchase price depends on the 
5purchase price slab and on mode of annuity payments. 
The incentive increases as the purchase price moves from 
the lower slab to higher slab of the purchase price. The 
incentive also increases with the reduction in frequency 
of annuity payments.
ii. Incentive for Direct Sale by way of increase in the annuity 
rate is as under:
 A rebate of 2% by way of increase in the annuity rate 
shall be applicable for policies purchased Online, by NPS 
subscribers and as QROPS.
7. Reduction Factor for Purchase Price less than 
`1,50,000/-:
 For Purchase Price less than `1,50,000/-, annuity rates given 
under this plan shall be reduced with Reduction Factors.
 
 Reduction factor is provided for two slabs of purchase price, 
first slab being `1,00,000 to `1,49,999 and second slab being 
less than `1,00,000. The reduction factor for the first slab is 
lower than for the second slab.
The Reduction Factor specified above shall not be applicable 
where the plan has been purchased for the benefit of 
dependent person with disability (Divyangjan).
8. Illustration:
Purchase Price :   `10 lakh (excluding applicable   
     taxes)
Age of Annuitant at entry : 45 years (completed)
Annuity Mode :   Yearly
Age of Secondary 
Annuitant at entry :   35 years (completed) 
      (applicable for Joint life annuity   
      only)
Annuity OptionAnnuity Amount 
(`)
Option A: Immediate Annuity for life 74,200
Option B: Immediate Annuity with 
guaranteed period of 5 years and life 
thereafter 74,100
Option C: Immediate Annuity with 
guaranteed period of 10 years and life 
thereafter 73,800
Option D: Immediate Annuity with 
guaranteed period of 15 years and life 
thereafter73,300
6Option E: Immediate Annuity with 
guaranteed period of 20 years and life 
thereafter 72,800
Option F: Immediate Annuity for life with 
return of Purchase Price64,800
Option G: Immediate Annuity for life 
increasing at a simple rate of 3% p.a. 56,400
Option H: Joint Life Immediate Annuity for 
life with a provision for 50% of the annuity 
to the Secondary Annuitant on death of 
the Primary Annuitant70,700
Option I: Joint Life Immediate Annuity for 
life with a provision for 100% of the annuity 
payable as long as one of the Annuitant 
survives67,500
Option J: Joint Life Immediate Annuity for 
life with a provision for 100% of the annuity 
payable as long as one of the Annuitant 
survives and return of Purchase Price on 
death of last survivor63,900
For death benefit under above options, please refer to Para 3 
above.
9. Options:
i) Options available for payment of Death Benefit:
Under the annuity options where the benefit is payable on 
death i.e. Option F and Option J, the Annuitant(s) will have 
to choose one of the following options for the payment 
of the death benefit to the nominee(s).The death claim 
amount shall then be paid to the nominee(s) as per the 
option exercised by the Annuitant(s) and no alteration 
whatsoever shall be allowed to be made by the nominee(s).  
•	 Lumpsum Death Benefit: Under this option the entire 
Purchase Price shall be payable to the nominee(s) in 
lumpsum.
•	 Annuitisation of Death Benefit: Under this option the 
benefit amount payable on death i.e. Purchase Price shall 
be utilized for purchasing an Immediate Annuity from the 
Corporation for nominee(s). The annuity amount payable 
to the nominee(s) on the admission of death claim shall be 
based on the age of nominee(s) and immediate annuity 
rates prevailing as on the date of death of Annuitant (last 
survivor in case of Joint Life Annuity).  This option can 
be opted for full or part of the benefit amount payable 
on death. However, the annuity payments for each 
nominee(s) shall be subject to the eligibility conditions of 
7the annuity plan available at that time and then prevailing 
Regulatory provisions on the minimum limits for annuities.  
•	 In Instalment: Under this option the benefit amount 
payable on death i.e. Purchase Price can be received in 
instalments over the chosen period of 5 years instead of 
lumpsum amount. This option can be exercised for full or 
part of the Death Benefit payable under the policy. The 
amount opted by the Annuitant(s) (i.e. net claim amount) 
can be either in absolute value or as a percentage of the 
total claim proceeds payable.
 The instalments shall be paid in advance at yearly or 
half-yearly or quarterly or monthly intervals, as opted 
for, subject to minimum instalment amount for different 
modes of payments being as under:
Mode of Instalment 
paymentMinimum instalment 
amount
Monthly `5,000/-
Quarterly `15,000/-
Half-Yearly `25,000/-
Yearly `50,000/-
If the Net Claim Amount is less than the required amount 
to provide the minimum instalment amount as per the 
option exercised by the Annuitant(s), the claim proceed 
shall be paid in lumpsum only.
For all the installment payment options commencing 
during the 12 months’ period from 1st May to 30th April, 
the interest rate applicable for arriving at the instalment
amount shall be annual effective \ rate not lower than the 
5 year semi-annual G-Sec rate minus 200 basis points; 
where, the 5 year semi-annual G-Sec  rate shall be as at 
last trading day of previous financial year.
Accordingly, for the 12 months’ period commencing from 
1st May, 2022 to 30th April, 2023, the applicable interest 
rate for the calculation of installment amount shall be 
4.84% p.a. effective.
For example, if this option has been exercised for the Net 
Claim Amount of Rs. 10,00,000/-, the amount of each 
instalment payable in advance for installment payment 
options commencing during the 12 months’ period 
beginning from 1st May, 2022 to 30th April, 2023, shall be 
as below
8Specified 
numbers of 
yearsAmount of each instalment for ` 10,00,000 
Net claim amount
 (Payable in Advance)
Y early Half-Y early Quarterly Monthly
5 2,19,338 1,10,965 55,810 18,677
ii) Option to take Annuity by NPS subscriber: 
  The annuity options as allowed as per PFRDA Regulations 
shall be available to NPS subscribers.
  If a Government Sector NPS subscriber purchases this 
plan as a Default Option, then Option J shall be available 
to the subscriber whose spouse is surviving on the date 
of purchase. Option F shall be available to the subscriber 
in the absence of his or her spouse. Thereafter on the 
death of subscriber and his or her spouse, the purchase 
price shall be used to purchase annuity Option F or J on 
the life of living dependant mother/father and shall be 
subject to the eligibility conditions of the annuity plan 
available at that time.
  Subject to the specific Plan features, all other terms and 
condition including the Default Option applicable shall 
be as per the Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, and Circulars 
etc. issued by Pension Fund Regulatory and Development 
Authority (PFRDA) from time to time in this regard.
iii) Option to take the plan for the benefit of dependant 
person with disability (Divyangjan):
 If the Proposer has a dependant person with disability 
(Divyangjan) , the plan can be purchased for the benefit 
of Divyangjan as Nominee/Secondary Annuitant, subject 
to minimum Purchase Price of `50,000/- without any 
limit on minimum annuity payment and minimum age 
at entry (for Divyangjan life), in following ways:
a) The Proposer can purchase Immediate Annuity with 
Return of Purchase Price (Option F) on own life. In 
case of death of the Annuitant (Proposer), the Death 
Benefit shall compulsorily be utilized to purchase 
Immediate Annuity (as per option chosen by the 
Annuitant) on the life of the Divyangjan.
b) The Proposer can purchase Joint Life Annuity (Option 
I or J) with Divyangjan as Secondary Annuitant.
10. Plan purchased as QROPS (Qualifying Recognized 
Overseas Pension Scheme): 
This plan can be purchased as QROPS, through transfer of UK 
tax relieved assets subject to listing and terms and conditions 
9prescribed by HMRC (Her Majesty Revenue & Customs) such 
as:
i. Minimum age shall be 55 years of age. 
ii. If the policy is cancelled during the Free Look Period, the 
proceeds from cancellation shall only be transferred back 
to the fund house from where the money was received. 
iii. Other terms and conditions of HMRC shall also apply as 
applicable from time to time.
11. Plan purchased through Point of Sales Persons-Life 
Insurance (POSP-LI) and Common Public Service 
Centers (CPSC-SPV):
This plan can be purchased through Point of Sales Persons-
Life Insurance (POSP-LI) and CPSC-SPV. The annuity options 
allowed, eligibility conditions and other terms and conditions 
shall be as per the Guidelines, Circulars and Regulations etc. 
issued by the IRDAI applicable to POS Plans and POSP-LI.
Currently, the Plan Features/Parameters/Eligibility conditions 
are as follows:
Type of Immediate Annuity Option allowed : Only Option F  
and J
Minimum Age at Entry : 40 years (completed)
Maximum Age at Entry : 70 years (completed)
12. Surrender Value:
Only under the following annuity options, the policy can 
be surrendered at any time after three months from the 
completion of policy (i.e. 3 months from the Date of issuance 
of policy) or after expiry of the free-look period, whichever is 
later,:
•	 Option F: Immediate Annuity for life with return of 
Purchase Price.
•	 Option J: Joint Life Immediate Annuity for life with a 
provision for 100% of the annuity payable as long as one 
of the Annuitant survives and return of Purchase Price on 
death of last survivor.
The surrender value payable shall depend on the age (last 
birthday) of the Annuitant at the time of surrender of the 
policy.
If the chosen annuity option is other than specified above, 
surrender of policy shall not be allowed.
On the payment of the surrender value, the policy shall 
terminate and all other benefits shall cease.
 
The Surrender Value is reviewable and shall be determined by 
the Corporation from time to time subject to prior approval 
10of IRDAI.
The Corporation may review conditions of surrender from 
time to time as per its policy in this regard.
In case of NPS or QROPS, the surrender provisions shall 
be further subject to any specific provisions regarding 
procedures as per Rules and Regulations of the respective 
Regulator/Authority (PFRDA/HMRC).
Note: The insurance policy being a long term contract should 
be taken from the long term perspective of continuing the 
policy. While there is provision for surrender under various 
annuity options mentioned above, it may be noted that there 
can be significant loss on surrender of a policy and hence, it is 
advisable to continue the policy. 
13. Loan:
 Loan facility shall be available at any time after three months 
from the completion of policy (i.e. 3 months from the date 
of issuance of policy) or after expiry of the free-look period, 
whichever is later, subject to terms and conditions as the 
Corporation may specify from time to time. 
As per current provisions, policy loan shall be allowed under 
the following annuity options only:
•	 Option F: Immediate Annuity for life with return of 
Purchase Price.
•	 Option J: Joint Life Immediate Annuity for life with a 
provision for 100% of the annuity payable as long as one 
of the Annuitant survives and return of Purchase Price on 
death of last survivor.
The maximum amount of loan that can be granted under 
the policy shall be such that the effective annual interest 
amount payable on loan does not exceed 50% of the annual 
annuity amount and shall be subject to maximum of 80% of 
Surrender Value. Loan interest will be recovered from annuity 
amount payable under the policy. The loan outstanding shall 
be recovered from the claim proceeds at the time of exit.
The loan interest rate for all the loans commencing during 
the 12 months’ period from 1st May to 30th April, shall be 
annual effective rate not exceeding 10 year G-Sec rate p.a. 
compounding half-yearly plus 300 basis points. The 10 year 
G-Sec rate shall be as at last trading date of previous financial 
year. The calculated interest rate shall be applicable for full 
term of Loan.
For the loan sanctioned during the 12 months’ period 
commencing from 1st May, 2022 to 30th April, 2023, the 
applicable interest rate is 9.50% p.a. compounding half- yearly  
11for entire term of the loan.
Any change in basis of determination of interest rate for policy 
loan shall be subject to prior approval of IRDAI.
14. Tax:
 Statutory Taxes, if any, imposed on such insurance plans by 
the Govt. of India or any other constitutional Tax Authority 
of India shall be as per the Tax laws and the rate of tax as 
applicable from time to time.
 The amount of any applicable taxes, as per the prevailing 
rates, shall be payable by the policyholder on Purchase 
Price payable under the policy, which shall be collected 
separately in addition to the Purchase Price payable by the 
policyholder. The amount of Tax paid shall not be considered 
for the calculation of benefits payable under the plan. 
 Regarding, Income tax benefits/implications on premium(s) 
paid and benefits payable under this plan, please consult 
your tax advisor for details. 
15. Free Look Period:
 If the Policyholder is not satisfied with the “Terms and 
Conditions” of the policy, the policy may be returned to the 
Corporation within 30 days  from the date of receipt of the 
electronic or physical mode policy bond, whichever is earlier, 
stating the reasons for objections. On receipt of the same the 
Corporation shall cancel the policy and return the Purchase 
Price paid after deducting the charges for stamp duty and 
annuity paid, if any. The treatment of the policy shall be as 
below:
a) For standalone immediate annuity policies: The proceeds 
from cancellation shall be returned to the policyholder.
b) If the policy is purchased out of proceeds of a deferred 
pension plan of any other insurance company: The 
proceeds from cancellation will be transferred back to 
that insurance company
In case of NPS or QROPS, the Free Look provisions shall 
be further subject to any specific provisions regarding 
procedures as per Rules and Regulations of the respective 
Regulator/Authority (PFRDA/HMRC).
16. SECTION 45 OF INSURANCE ACT, 1938:
The provision of Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938 shall be 
as amended from time to time. The simplified version of this 
provision is as under:
Provisions regarding policy not being called into question in 
terms of Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938 are as follows:
121. No Policy of Life Insurance shall be called in question on 
any ground whatsoever after expiry of 3 years from
a. the date of issuance of policy or
b. the date of commencement of risk or
c. the date of revival of policy or
d. the date of rider to the policy
 whichever is later.
2. On the ground of fraud, a policy of Life Insurance may be 
called in question within 3 years from
a. the date of issuance of policy or
b. the date of commencement of risk or
c. the date of revival of policy or
d. the date of rider to the policy
 whichever is later.
 For this, the insurer should communicate in writing to the 
insured or legal representative or nominee or assignees 
of insured, as applicable, mentioning the ground and 
materials on which such decision is based.
3. Fraud means any of the following acts committed by 
insured or by his agent, with the intent to deceive the 
insurer or to induce the insurer to issue a life insurance 
policy:
a. The suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and 
which the insured does not believe to be true;
b. The active concealment of a fact by the insured 
having knowledge or belief of the fact;
c. Any other act fitted to deceive; and
d. Any such act or omission as the law specifically 
declares to be fraudulent.
4. Mere silence is not fraud unless, depending on 
circumstances of the case, it is the duty of the insured or 
his agent keeping silence to speak or silence is in itself 
equivalent to speak.
5. No Insurer shall repudiate a life insurance Policy on the 
ground of Fraud, if the Insured / beneficiary can prove that 
the misstatement was true to the best of his knowledge 
and there was no deliberate intention to suppress the 
fact or that such mis-statement of or suppression of 
material fact are within the knowledge of the insurer. 
Onus of disproving is upon the policyholder, if alive, or 
beneficiaries.
6. Life insurance Policy can be called in question within 3 
years on the ground that any statement of or suppression 
of a fact material to expectancy of life of the insured was 
incorrectly made in the proposal or other document 
basis which policy was issued or revived or rider issued. 
13For this, the insurer should communicate in writing to the 
insured or legal representative or nominee or assignees 
of insured, as applicable, mentioning the ground and 
materials on which decision to repudiate the policy of life 
insurance is based.
7. In case repudiation is on ground of mis-statement and 
not on fraud, the premium collected on policy till the 
date of repudiation shall be paid to the insured or legal 
representative or nominee or assignees of insured, within 
a period of 90 days from the date of repudiation.
8. Fact shall not be considered material unless it has a direct 
bearing on the risk undertaken by the insurer. The onus 
is on insurer to show that if the insurer had been aware 
of the said fact, no life insurance policy would have been 
issued to the insured.
9. The insurer can call for proof of age at any time if he is 
entitled to do so and no policy shall be deemed to be 
called in question merely because the terms of the policy 
are adjusted on subsequent proof of age of life insured. 
So, this Section will not be applicable for questioning 
age or adjustment based on proof of age submitted 
subsequently.
 [Disclaimer: This is not a comprehensive list of Section 45 
of the Insurance Act, 1938 and only a simplified version 
prepared for general information. Policyholders are 
advised to refer Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938, for 
complete and accurate details.]
17.  Prohibition of rebates Section 41 of Insurance Act, 
1938:
1) No person shall allow or offer to allow, either directly or 
indirectly, as an inducement to any person to take out or 
renew or continue an insurance in respect of any kind 
of risk relating to lives or property in India, any rebate 
of the whole or part of the commission payable or any 
rebate of the premium shown on the policy, nor shall 
any person taking out or renewing or continuing a policy 
accept any rebate, except such rebate as may be allowed 
in accordance with the published prospectuses or tables 
of the insurer.
2) Any person making default in complying with 
the provisions of this section shall be liable for 
a penalty which may extend to ten lakh rupees. 
 
Various Sections of the Insurance Act, 1938, applicable to LIC to 
apply as amended from time to time.
14This product brochure gives only salient features of the plan. 
For further details please refer to the Policy document on our 
website www.licindia.in or contact our nearest Branch Office.
To purchase the policy online please log on to www.licindia.in
BEWARE OF SPURIOUS PHONE CALLS AND FICTITIOUS/
FRAUDULENT OFFERS
IRDAI is not involved in activities like selling insurance policies, 
announcing bonus or investment of premiums. Public 
receiving such phone calls are requested to lodge a police 
complaint.
Registered Office:
Life Insurance Corporation of India 
Central Office, Yogakshema,
Jeevan Bima Marg, Mumbai-400021
Website: www.licindia.in
Registration Number: 512