Also Available Online
ONETIME INVESTMENT FOR A SECURED FUTURELife is long
so will be your gains
LIC’sNEW
A Non-Linked, Non-Participating, Individual,
Single Premium, Deferred Annuity Plan
Fixed Annuity
Rates
from inception
of Policy
Multiple
Annuity
options
Increasing
Death Benefit
during deferment
period---------------------------------
---------------------------------
Download 
LIC Mobile App “MyLIC”Visit: licindia.in
Call Centre Services (022) 6827 6827
For details, contact your Agent/Nearest LIC Branch or
SMS YOUR CITY NAME to 56767474  
|IRDAI Regn No.: 512 | Follow us : LIC India Forever
1
LIC’s New Jeevan Shanti (UIN: 512N338V04)
(A Non-Linked, Non-Participating, Individual, Single Premium, 
Deferred Annuity Plan)
1. Introduction:
• This is a single premium plan wherein the Policyholder has an 
option to choose between Single life and Joint life Deferred 
annuity. 
• The annuity rates are guaranteed at the inception of the policy 
and annuities are payable post deferment period throughout the 
life time of Annuitant(s). 
• This plan can be purchased offline as well as online. To purchase 
the plan online, please log on to our website www.licindia.in
2. Annuity Options:
The options available are: 
Option 1: Deferred annuity for Single life 
Option 2: Deferred annuity for Joint life
Annuity option once chosen cannot be altered. 
3. Benefits:
Benefits payable are: 
Option Benefits
Option 1 During Deferment Period:
• On survival of the Annuitant, nothing shall be 
payable.
• On death of the Annuitant, Death Benefit as 
defined below shall be payable to nominee(s).
After Deferment Period:
• The annuity payments, as per the chosen mode, 
shall be made in arrears for as long as the 
Annuitant is alive.
• On death of the Annuitant, the annuity payments 
shall cease immediately and Death Benefit as 
defined below shall be payable to nominee(s).
2
Option 2 During Deferment Period:
• On the survival of the Primary Annuitant and/or 
Secondary Annuitant, nothing shall be payable.
• On death of the last survivor, Death Benefit as 
defined below shall be payable to nominee(s).  
After Deferment Period:
• The annuity payments, as per the chosen mode, 
shall be made in arrears for as long as the Primary 
Annuitant and/or Secondary Annuitant is alive.
• On death of the last survivor, the annuity 
payments shall cease immediately and Death 
Benefit as defined below shall be payable to 
nominee(s).
Death Benefit: Death Benefit under both of the Options shall   
be: 
Higher of
• Purchase Price plus Accrued Additional Benefit on Death (as 
specified below) minus Total annuity amount payable till date of 
death, if any
OR 
• 105% of Purchase Price 
 Accrued Additional Benefit on Death: Additional Benefit on Death 
shall accrue at the end of each policy month, till the end of Deferment 
Period only. The rate of Additional Benefit on Death during the 
deferment Period shall be as under:
Additional Benefit on Death per month= (Purchase Price *Annuity 
rate p.a. payable monthly) / 12
Where, Annuity rate p.a. payable monthly shall be equal to annuity 
rate per unit Purchase Price applicable for monthly mode without 
applying any incentive and shall depend on the Option chosen, Age 
at entry of the annuitant(s) and the Deferment Period opted for.
In case of death of the annuitant or surrender of the policy during 
the deferment period, Additional Benefit on Death for the policy 
year in which the death/surrender has occurred shall accrue till the 
completed policy month as on the date of death/surrender.
4. Eligibility Criteria:
Minimum Purchase Price* : `1,50,000 subject to minimum  
   Annuity as specified below
3
Maximum Purchase Price : No Limit
The abovementioned minimum purchase price would be increased 
appropriately to meet minimum annuity criterion as specified 
below.
Minimum Age at Entry : 30 years (Last Birthday)
Maximum Age at Entry : 79 years (Last Birthday)
Minimum Vesting Age : 31 years (Last Birthday)
Maximum Vesting Age : 80 years (Last Birthday)
Minimum Deferment Period : 1 year
Maximum Deferment Period : 12 years subject to    
    Maximum Vesting Age
Minimum Annuity:
Annuity 
ModeMonthly Quarterly Half-yearly Annual
Minimum 
Annuity`1000 per 
month`3000 per 
quarter`6000 per 
half-year`12000 per 
annum
Joint Life: The joint life annuity can be taken between any two lineal 
descendant/ascendant of a family (i.e. Grandparent, Parent, Children, 
Grandchildren) or spouse or siblings. 
*Exceptional cases where minimum annuity and minimum Purchase 
Price of `  1,50,000/- shall not be applicable:  
If the plan has been purchased for the benefit of dependant person 
with disability (Divyangjan) as specified in Para 9.
ii below, the proposal shall be allowed without any restriction on 
minimum annuity and the minimum Purchase Price under such 
cases shall be `50,000/-.
5. Mode of Annuity payment: 
The modes of annuity available are yearly, half-yearly, quarterly and 
monthly. The Annuity shall be payable in arrears i.e. the annuity 
payment shall be after 1 year, 6 months, 3 months and 1 month from 
the date of vesting of Annuity depending on whether the mode 
of annuity payment is Yearly, Half yearly, Quarterly and Monthly 
respectively.
6. Incentive:
The following incentives are available under this plan: 
i. Incentive for higher purchase price:
Incentive for higher purchase price by way of increase in the annuity 
rate is provided for three slabs of purchase price  i) Rs 5,00,000 to Rs 
9,99,999 ii) Rs 10,00,000 to Rs 24,99,999 iii) Rs 25,00,000 and above.
4
The incentive for higher purchase price depends on the purchase 
price slab and also on the deferment period. The incentive increases 
as the purchase price moves from the lower slab to higher slab of the 
purchase price and also along with increase in deferment period.
ii. Incentive for Direct Sale by way of increase in the annuity   
rate is as under:
A re bate of 2% by way of increase in the annuity rate shall be 
applicable for policies purchased Online and as QROPS.
7. Reduction in annuity rates:
 For annuity payment frequencies other than yearly mode, reduction 
by way of decrease in annuity rate shall be applicable. The reduction 
is as under:
ModePercentage Reduction in 
(Y early) annuity rate
Half-yearly 2%
Quarterly 3%
Monthly 4%
8. Illustration:
Purchase Price  :` 10 lakh    
  (excluding applicable taxes)
Age of Annuitant at entry  :45 years (Last Birthday)
Deferment Period  :12 years
Age of Secondary Annuitant at entry :35 years (Last Birthday)
  (applicable for Option 2 only)
Annuity OptionAnnuity Amount 
Payable for various annuity
payment modes (`)
Y early Half Y early Quarterly Monthly
Option 1: Deferred 
annuity for Single 
life 1,39,900 68,551 33,926 11,192
Option 2: 
Deferred annuity 
for Joint life  1,32,200 64,778 32,059 10,576
For death benefit under above options, please refer to Para 3 above.
5
9. Options:
i) Options available for payment of Death Benefit:
The Annuitant(s) will have to choose one of the following options 
for the payment of the death benefit to the nominee(s).The death 
claim amount shall then be paid to the nominee(s) as per the 
option exercised by the Annuitant(s) and no alteration whatsoever 
shall be allowed to be made by the nominee(s). This option has to 
be exercised by Annuitant(s) at the proposal stage. However, this 
option can be subsequently modified by Annuitant(s) during his/
her life during the currency of the policy. 
• Lumpsum Death Benefit:  Under this option the entire 
Death benefit shall be payable to the nominee(s) in 
lumpsum.
• Annuitisation of Death Benefit:  Under this option the 
benefit amount payable on death shall be utilized for 
purchasing an Immediate Annuity from the Corporation 
for nominee(s) effective from the date of death of the 
annuitant/last survivor. The annuity amount payable to 
the nominee(s) on the admission of death claim shall be 
based on the age of nominee(s) and immediate annuity 
rates prevailing as on the date of death of Annuitant (last 
survivor in case of Joint Life Annuity). This option can 
be opted for full or part of the benefit amount payable 
on death. However, the annuity payments for each 
nominee(s) shall be subject to the eligibility conditions of 
the annuity plan available at that time and then prevailing 
Regulatory provisions on the minimum limits for annuities. 
In case the eligibility conditions of the annuity plan 
available at that time are not met or the benefit amount 
payable on death is insufficient to purchase the minimum 
amount of annuity, then the said amount shall be paid as a 
lumpsum to the nominee(s). 
• In Installment:  Under this option the benefit amount 
payable on death can be received in installments over the 
chosen period of 5 years instead of lumpsum amount. 
This option can be exercised for full or part of the Death 
Benefit payable under the policy. The amount opted by 
6
the Annuitant(s) (i.e. net claim amount) can be either 
in absolute value or as a percentage of the total claim 
proceeds payable. 
 
The installments shall be paid in advance at yearly or   
 half- yearly or quarterly or monthly intervals, as opted   
 for, subject to minimum installment amount for different  
 modes of payments being as under: 
Mode of Installment payment Minimum Installment amount
Monthly `5,000/-
Quarterly `15,000/-
Half-Yearly `25,000/-
Yearly `50,000/-
If the Net Claim Amount is less than the required amount 
to provide the minimum installment amount as per the 
option exercised by the Annuitant(s), the claim proceed 
shall be paid in lumpsum only.
For all the installment payment options commencing 
during the 12 months’ period from 1st May to 30th April, 
the interest rate applicable for arriving at the instalment 
amount shall be annual effective rate not lower than 5 
year semi-annual G-Sec rate minus 2%; where, the 5 year 
semi-annual G-Sec rate shall be as at last trading day of 
previous financial year.
Accordingly, for the 12 months’ period commencing from 
1st May, 2022 to 30th April, 2023, the applicable interest rate 
for the calculation of installment amount shall be 4.84% 
p.a. effective.
For example, if this option has been exercised for the 
Net Claim Amount of Rs. 10,00,000/-, the amount of each 
instalment payable in advance for installment payment 
options commencing during the 12 months’ period 
beginning from 1st May, 2022 to 30th April, 2023, shall be as 
7
below:
Specified 
number of 
yearsAmount of each installment for `10,00,000 
Net claim amount
 (Payable in Advance)
Y early Half-Y early Quarterly Monthly
5 2,19,338 1,10,965 55,810 18,677
ii) Option to take the plan for the benefit of dependant person 
with disability (Divyangjan):
  If the Proposer has a dependant person with disability 
(Divyangjan), the Proposer can purchase Deferred Annuity for 
Single life (Option 1) on own life for the benefit of Divyangjan as 
Nominee,subject to minimum Purchase Price of ` 50,000/-.
  In case of death of the Annuitant (Proposer), where the Purchase 
Price is less than `1,50,000, the Death Benefit shall compulsorily 
be utilized to purchase Immediate Annuity (as per option chosen 
by the Annuitant) on the life of the Divyangjan who would be the 
nominee.
  In case of Annuitisation, the annuity payment to Divyangjan shall 
be paid irrespective of any limit on minimum annuity payment, 
minimum age at entry and Purchase Price criteria and annuity 
rates applicable shall be then prevailing Immediate Annuity rates.
10. Plan purchased as QROPS (Qualifying Recognized Overseas 
Pension Scheme): 
This plan can be purchased as QROPS, through transfer of UK tax 
relieved assets subject to listing and terms and conditions prescribed 
by HMRC (Her Majesty Revenue & Customs) such as:
i. Minimum Vesting Age shall be 55 years.
ii. If the policy is cancelled during the Free Look Period,the proceeds 
from cancellation shall only be transferred back to the fund house 
from where the money was received. 
iii. Subject to specific Plan features including Minimum Annuity as 
specified in Para 4, all other terms and conditions of HMRC shall 
also apply as applicable from time to time.
11. Surrender Value:
The policy can be surrendered at any time during the policy term.
The surrender value payable shall be higher of Guaranteed Surrender 
Value or Special Surrender Value.
8
Guaranteed Surrender Value (GSV):
Guaranteed Surrender Value = (GSV Factor * Purchase Price) minus 
total annuity amount payable up to the date of surrender.
Where, applicable Guaranteed Surrender Value (GSV) Factors shall be:
Policy Y ear 1 2 3 4 5 and above
GSV Factor 75% 75% 75% 90% 90%
Special Surrender Value:
The Special Surrender Value is reviewable and shall be determined by 
the Corporation from time to time subject to prior approval of IRDAI. 
Any loan amount outstanding along with interest and/or any other 
amount recoverable from Annuitant shall be recovered from the 
surrender value payment.
In case of QROPS, the surrender provisions shall be further subject 
to any specific provisions regarding procedures as per Rules and 
Regulations of the HMRC.
Note: The insurance policy being a long term contract should be taken 
from the long term perspective of continuing the policy. While there 
is provision for surrender under various annuity options mentioned 
above, it may be noted that there can be significant loss on surrender 
of a policy and hence, it is advisable to continue the policy.
12. Loan:
 The Policy loan shall be allowed at any time after three months from 
the completion of policy (i.e. 3 months from the date of issuance 
of policy) or after expiry of the free-look period, whichever is later. 
Policy loan shall be available during as well as after deferment period 
subject to terms and conditions of the Corporation in this regard.
Under joint life annuity option, the loan can be availed by the Primary 
Annuitant and in the absence of Primary Annuitant the same can be 
availed by the Secondary Annuitant.
The maximum amount of loan that can be granted under the policy 
shall be such that the effective annual interest amount payable on 
loan does not exceed 50% of the annual annuity amount and shall be 
subject to maximum of 80% of Surrender Value.
The loan interest rate for all the loans commencing during the 12 
months’ period from 1st May to 30th April, shall be compounding 
9
half-yearly rate not exceeding 10 year G-Sec Base/Par yield p.a. 
compounding half-yearly plus 300 basis points. The 10 year G-Sec 
Base/Par yield shall be as at last trading date of previous financial year. 
The calculated interest rate shall be applicable for full term of Loan.
For the loan sanctioned during the 12 months’ period commencing 
from 1st May, 2022 to 30th April, 2023, the applicable interest rate is 
9.50% p.a. compounding half-yearly for entire term of the loan.
Any change in basis of determination of interest rate for policy loan 
shall be subject to prior approval of IRDAI.
13. Tax:
 Statutory Taxes, if any, imposed on such insurance plans by the Govt. 
of India or any other constitutional Tax Authority of India shall be as 
per the Tax laws and the rate of tax as applicable from time to time.
 The amount of any applicable taxes, as per the prevailing rates, shall 
be payable by the policyholder on Premium payable under the 
policy, which shall be collected separately in addition to the Premium 
payable by the policyholder. The amount of Tax paid shall not be 
considered for the calculation of benefits payable under the plan.
 Regarding, Income tax benefits/implications on premium(s) paid and 
benefits payable under this plan, please consult your tax advisor for 
details.
14. Free Look Period:
 If the Policyholder is not satisfied with the “Terms and Conditions” of 
the policy, the policy may be returned to the Corporation within 30 
days from the date of receipt of the electronic or physical mode of the 
policy bond, whichever is earlier, stating the reasons for objections. 
On receipt of the same the Corporation shall cancel the policy and 
return the Premium paid after deducting the charges for stamp duty 
and annuity paid, if any.However, this condition of Free Look period 
shall only be applicable in case of new purchase of Deferred Annuity 
plan. Wherever the purchase is from the existing fund the same shall 
not be applicable.
 The treatment of other policies shall be as below:
a) If this policy is purchased out of proceeds of a deferred pension 
plan of any other Life Insurer: The proceeds from cancellation will 
be transferred back to that Life Insurer.
b) If the policy has been purchased as QROPS as detailed in Para 10 
10
above: The proceeds from cancellation shall only be transferred 
back to the fund house from where the money was received.
In case of QROPS, above provisions shall be further subject to 
any specific provisions regarding procedures as per Rules and 
Regulations of the HMRC in this regard.
15. Exclusions:
Suicide:Suicide:
The policy shall be void if the Annuitant/ Last Survivor in case of joint 
life annuity (whether sane or insane at the time) commits suicide at 
any time within 12 months from the date of commencement of risk. In 
such case, an amount which is higher of 80% of the Premium paid or 
Surrender Value shall be payable. The Corporation will not entertain 
any other claim.
16.  Prohibition of rebates Section 41 of Insurance Act, 1938:
1) No person shall allow or offer to allow, either directly or indirectly, 
as an inducement to any person to take out or renew or 
continue an insurance in respect of any kind of risk relating to 
lives or property in India, any rebate of the whole or part of the 
commission payable or any rebate of the premium shown on the 
policy, nor shall any person taking out or renewing or continuing 
a policy accept any rebate, except such rebate as may be allowed 
in accordance with the published prospectuses or tables of the 
insurer.
2) Any person making default in complying with the provisions of 
this section shall be liable for a penalty which may extend to ten 
lakh rupees.
17. SECTION 45 OF INSURANCE ACT, 1938: 
The provision of Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938 shall be as 
amended from time to time. The simplified version of this provision 
is as under: 
Provisions regarding policy not being called into question in terms 
of Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938 are as follows:
1. No Policy of Life Insurance shall be called in question on any 
ground whatsoever after expiry of 3 yrs from
a. the date of issuance of policy or
b. the date of commencement of risk or
c. the date of revival of policy or
d. the date of rider to the policy
11
whichever is later.
2. On the ground of fraud, a policy of Life Insurance may be called in 
question within 3 years from
a. the date of issuance of policy or
b. the date of commencement of risk or
c. the date of revival of policy or
d. the date of rider to the policy
whichever is later.
For this, the insurer should communicate in writing to the insured or 
legal representative or nominee or assignees of insured, as applicable, 
mentioning the ground and materials on which such decision is based.
3. Fraud means any of the following acts committed by insured or 
by his agent, with the intent to deceive the insurer or to induce 
the insurer to issue a life insurance policy:
 a. The suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the 
insured does not believe to be true;
 b. The active concealment of a fact by the insured having 
knowledge or belief of the fact;
 c. Any other act fitted to deceive; and
 d. Any such act or omission as the law specifically declares to be 
fraudulent.
4. Mere silence is not fraud unless, depending on circumstances of 
the case, it is the duty of the insured or his agent keeping silence 
to speak or silence is in itself equivalent to speak.
5. No Insurer shall repudiate a life insurance Policy on the ground of 
Fraud, if the Insured / beneficiary can prove that the misstatement 
was true to the best of his knowledge and there was no deliberate 
intention to suppress the fact or that such mis-statement of or 
suppression of material fact are within the knowledge of the 
insurer. Onus of disproving is upon the policyholder, if alive, or 
beneficiaries.
6. Life insurance Policy can be called in question within 3 years on 
the ground that any statement of or suppression of a fact material 
to expectancy of life of the insured was incorrectly made in the 
proposal or other document basis which policy was issued or 
revived or rider issued. For this, the insurer should communicate 
in writing to the insured or legal representative or nominee or 
assignees of insured, as applicable, mentioning the ground 
and materials on which decision to repudiate the policy of life 
insurance is based.
7. In case repudiation is on ground of mis-statement and not on 
fraud, the premium collected on policy till the date of repudiation 
12
shall be paid to the insured or legal representative or nominee or 
assignees of insured, within a period of 90 days from the date of 
repudiation.
8. Fact shall not be considered material unless it has a direct bearing 
on the risk undertaken by the insurer. The onus is on insurer to 
show that if the insurer had been aware of the said fact, no life 
insurance policy would have been issued to the insured.
9. The insurer can call for proof of age at any time if he is entitled 
to do so and no policy shall be deemed to be called in question 
merely because the terms of the policy are adjusted on 
subsequent proof of age of life insured. So, this Section will not 
be applicable for questioning age or adjustment based on proof 
of age submitted subsequently.
[Disclaimer: This is not a comprehensive list of Section 45 of the 
Insurance Act, 1938 and only a simplified version prepared for 
general information. Policyholders are advised to refer Section 
45 of the Insurance Act, 1938, for complete and accurate details.]
Various Sections of the Insurance Act, 1938, applicable to LIC to apply 
as amended from time to time.
13
This product brochure gives only salient features of the plan. For 
further details please refer to the Policy document on our website 
www.licindia.in or contact our nearest Branch Office.
To purchase the policy online please log on to www.licindia.in
BEWARE OF SPURIOUS PHONE CALLS AND FICTITIOUS/
FRAUDULENT OFFERS
IRDAI is not involved in activities like selling insurance policies, 
announcing bonus or investment of premiums. Public receiving such 
phone calls are requested to lodge a police complaint.
14

Registered Office:
Life Insurance Corporation of India 
Central Office, Yogakshema,
Jeevan Bima Marg,
Mumbai-400021
Website: www.licindia.in
Registration Number: 512