Avail immediate annuity along with
return of purchase price to nominee.WELL PLANNED
PENSION!
FREEDOM FRO M
TENSION!!A Non-Link ed, Non- Participatin g, 
Single Premium, Individual Immediate 
Annuity Plan
Contact Your Agent/Branch or Visit our 
website www.licindia.in or SMS YOUR CITY 
NAME TO 56767474 (eg. MUMBAI)

LIC’s Saral Pension 
(UIN: 512N342V04)
(A Non-Linked, Non-Participating, Single Premium, 
Individual Immediate Annuity Plan) 
 1. Introduction :
 • This is a Standard Immediate Annuity plan as per the guidelines of  
 Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI),  
 which offers same terms and conditions across all the life insurers.
 • The Policyholder has an option to choose type of annuity from two 
 available options on payment of a lump sum amount.
 • The annuity rates are guaranteed at the inception of the policy and  
 annuities are payable throughout the life time of Annuitant(s).
 • This plan can be purchased offline as well as online through LIC’s 
 website www.licindia.in. 
 2. Annuity Options:
 The available annuity options under this plan are as under:
 Option I: Life Annuity with Return of 100% of Purchase Price.
 Option II:  J o i n t  L i f e  L a s t  S u r v i v o r  A n n u i t y  w i t h  R e t u r n  o f  1 0 0 %  o f  
 Purchase Price on death of the last survivor.
 Annuity option once chosen cannot be altered.
 3. Benefits:
Benefits payable under above options are:
Option Benefits
Option I•  T h e  a n n u i t y  p a y m e n t s  s h a l l  b e  m a d e  i n  a r r e a r s  f o r  a s  l o n g  
as the Annuitant is alive, as per the chosen mode of annuity  
payment. 
• On death of the annuitant, the annuity payment shall cease 
immediately and 100% of Purchase Price shall be payable to 
nominee(s)/legal heirs.
Option II• The annuity amount shall be paid in arrears for as long 
as the Annuitant and/or spouse are alive, as per the  
chosen mode of annuity payment. 
• On death of the last survivor, the annuity payments will cease 
immediately and 100% of Purchase Price shall be payable to 
the nominee(s)/legal heirs.
 4. Eligibility Criteria:
 i. Minimum Age at Entry: 40 years (completed)
 ii.  Maximum Age at Entry: 80 years (completed) 
 iii. Minimum Annuity:
Annuity 
ModeMonthly Quarterly Half-yearly Annual
Minimum 
Annuity`1,000 per 
month`3,000 per 
quarte` 6,000 per 
half year`12,000 per 
annum
 iv. Minimum Purchase Price: Minimum Purchase price shall depend on the  
  Minimum Annuity as specified in (iii) above,  Option chosen and age of  
  the Annuitant.
 v. Maximum Purchase Price: No Limit
2
Note : 
1) The Joint Life Annuity, i.e. Option II, can be taken with spouse only.
2)  For Joint life annuity options, age of spouse shall also be subject to  
 Minimum Entry age as specified in (i) and Maximum Entry Age as specified  
 in (ii) above.
 5. Mode of Annuity payment:
The modes of annuity available are yearly, half-yearly, quarterly, 
and monthly. The Annuity shall be payable in arrears i.e. the annuity  
payment shall be after 1 year, 6 months, 3 months and 1 month  
from the date of commencement of policy depending on whether the mode  
of annuity payment is Yearly, Half yearly, Quarterly and Monthly respectively.
 6. Incentives:
The following incentives are available under this plan:
i.  Incentive for higher purchase price by way of increase in the annuity rate is 
as under:
 Incentive for higher purchase price by way of increase in the annuity rate is 
provided for three slabs of purchase price  i) Rs 5,00,000 to Rs 9,99,999 ii) Rs 
10,00,000 to Rs 24,99,999 iii) Rs 25,00,000 and above.
 The incentive for higher purchase price depends on the purchase price slab 
and on mode of annuity payments. The incentive increases as the purchase 
price moves from the lower slab to higher slab of the purchase price. The  
incentive also increases with the reduction in frequency of annuity payments
ii. Incentive for Online Sale by way of increase in the annuity rate is as under:
 A rebate of 2% by way of increase in annuity shall be available for policies 
purchased Online.
 7. Illustration:
Purchase Price   : `. 10 lakh (excluding applicable taxes)
Annuity Mode   : Yearly
Age of Annuitant at entry : 60 years (completed)
Age of Spouse at entry   : 55 years (completed) 
    (applicable for Option II only)
Annuity Option Annuity Amount ( `)
Option I:  Life Annuity with Return of 
100% of Purchase Price 64,350
Option II : Joint Life Last Survivor Annuity 
with Return of 100% of Purchase Price on 
death of the last survivor.  63,650
For death benefit under above options, please refer to Para 3 above.
 8. Surrender Value:
The policy can be surrendered at any time after six months from  
the date of commencement, if the annuitant or spouse or any of the  
children of the annuitant is diagnosed as suffering from any of the  
specified critical illnesses as Annexure, based on the documents produced to the  
satisfaction of the medical examiner of the Corporation.
On approval of the surrender, 95% of the Purchase Price shall be paid to the  
annuitant, subject to deduction of any outstanding loan amount and the loan 
interest, if any.
On payment of the surrender value, all other benefits shall cease and the policy 
shall terminate.
Any change in the surrender value calculation method shall be applicable only 
after the prior approval of IRDAI.
3
4Note: The insurance policy being a long term contract should be taken from 
the long term perspective of continuing the policy. While there is provision for  
surrender, it may be noted that there can be significant loss on surrender of a 
policy and hence, it is advisable to continue the policy.
 9. Loan:
The Policy loan shall be allowed at any time after six months from the date of 
commencement of the policy.
Under joint life annuity option, the loan can be availed by the Annuitant and on 
death of Annuitant the same can be availed by the spouse.
The maximum amount of loan that can be granted under the policy shall be 
such that the effective annual interest amount payable on loan does not exceed 
50% of the annual annuity amount payable under the policy.
Loan interest will be recovered from annuity amount payable under the policy. 
The Loan interest will accrue as per the frequency of annuity payment under 
the policy and it will be due on the due date of annuity. The loan outstanding 
shall be recovered from the claim proceeds under the policy. However, the 
annuitant has the flexibility to repay the loan principal at any time during the 
currency of the annuity payments.
The loan interest rate for all the loans commencing during the 12 months’ 
period from 1st May to 30th April, shall be annual effective rate equal to 10 year 
G-Sec rate p.a. plus  200 basis points. The 10 year G-Sec rate shall be as at 1st 
April of relevant financial year. The calculated interest rate shall be applicable 
for full term of Loan.
For the loan sanctioned during the 12 months’ period commencing from 1st 
May, 2022 to 30th April, 2023, the applicable interest rate is 8.98% p.a. effective 
for entire term of the loan.
Any change in basis of determination of interest rate for policy loan shall be  
subject to prior approval of IRDAI
 10. Tax:
Statutory Taxes, if any, imposed on such insurance plans by the Govt. of India or 
any other constitutional Tax Authority of India shall be as per the Tax laws and 
the rate of tax as applicable from time to time.
The amount of any applicable taxes (such as GST), payable as per the prevailing 
rates, shall be payable by the policyholder on Premium payable under the 
policy, which shall be collected separately in addition to the Premium payable 
by the policyholder. The amount of Tax paid shall not be considered for the 
calculation of benefits payable under the plan.
Regarding, Income tax benefits/implications on premium(s) paid and benefits 
payable under this plan, please consult your tax advisor for details.
 11. Free Look Period:
If the Policyholder is not satisfied with the “Terms and Conditions” of the  
policy, the policy may be returned to the Corporation within 30 days from the 
date of receipt of the electronic or physical mode of  the Policy Document,  
w h i c h e v e r  i s  e a r l i e r,   s t a ti n g  t h e  r e a s o n s  f o r  o b j e c ti o n s .  O n  r e c e i p t  o f  t h e  s a m e  t h e   
Corporation shall cancel the policy and return the Premium paid after deducting 
the charges for stamp duty and annuity paid, if any. The treatment of the policy 
shall be as below:
a)  For standalone immediate annuity policies: The proceeds from  
cancellation shall be returned to the policyholder.
b) If this policy is purchased out of proceeds of a deferred pension plan of 
any other insurance company: The proceeds from cancellation will be  
transferred back to the insurance company.
 12. SECTION 45 OF INSURANCE ACT, 1938:
The provision of Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938 shall be as  
amended from time to time. The simplified version of this provision is as under:
Provisions regarding policy not being called into question in terms of Section 45 
of the Insurance Act, 1938 are as follows:
1.  No Policy of Life Insurance shall be called in question on any ground  
whatsoever after expiry of 3 years from
 a. the date of issuance of policy or
 b. the date of commencement of risk or
 c. the date of revival of policy or
 d. the date of rider to the policy
 whichever is later.
2.  On the ground of fraud, a policy of Life Insurance may be called in question 
within 3 years from
 a. the date of issuance of policy or
 b. the date of commencement of risk or
 c. the date of revival of policy or
 d. the date of rider to the policy
 whichever is later.
 For this, the insurer should communicate in writing to the insured or legal  
representative or nominee or assignees of insured, as applicable, 
mentioning the ground and materials on which such decision is based.
3.  Fraud means any of the following acts committed by insured or by his 
agent, with the intent to deceive the insurer or to induce the insurer to 
issue a life insurance policy:
 a. The suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the 
 insured does not believe to be true;
 b. The active concealment of a fact by the insured having knowledge or 
  belief of the fact;
 c. Any other act fitted to deceive; and
 d. Any such act or omission as the law specifically declares to be  
 fraudulent.
4. Mere silence is not fraud unless, depending on circumstances of the case, 
it is the duty of the insured or his agent keeping silence to speak or silence 
is in itself equivalent to speak.
5.  No Insurer shall repudiate a life insurance Policy on the ground of Fraud, if 
the Insured / beneficiary can prove that the misstatement was true to the 
best of his knowledge and there was no deliberate intention to suppress 
the fact or that such mis-statement of or suppression of material fact 
are within the knowledge of the insurer. Onus of disproving is upon the 
policyholder, if alive, or beneficiaries.
6.  Life insurance Policy can be called in question within 3 years on the ground 
that any statement of or suppression of a fact material to expectancy of 
life of the insured was incorrectly made in the proposal or other document 
basis which policy was issued or revived or rider issued. For this, the insurer 
should communicate in writing to the insured or legal representative or 
nominee or assignees of insured, as applicable, mentioning the ground 
and materials on which decision to repudiate the policy of life insurance is 
based.
7. In case repudiation is on ground of mis-statement and not on fraud, the 
premium collected on policy till the date of repudiation shall be paid to the 
insured or legal representative or nominee or assignees of insured, within 
a period of 90 days from the date of repudiation.
5
8.  Fact shall not be considered material unless it has a direct bearing on the 
risk undertaken by the insurer. The onus is on insurer to show that if the 
insurer had been aware of the said fact, no life insurance policy would have 
been issued to the insured.
9.  The insurer can call for proof of age at any time if he is entitled to do so 
and no policy shall be deemed to be called in question merely because the 
terms of the policy are adjusted on subsequent proof of age of life insured. 
So, this Section will not be applicable for questioning age or adjustment 
based on proof of age submitted subsequently.
 [Disclaimer: This is not a comprehensive list of Section 45 of the Insurance 
Act, 1938 and only a simplified version prepared for general information.  
Policyholders are advised to refer to Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938, 
for complete and accurate details.]
 13. Prohibition of rebates Section 41 of Insurance Act, 1938:
1)  No person shall allow or offer to allow, either directly or indirectly, as an  
inducement to any person to take out or renew or continue an insurance 
in respect of any kind of risk relating to lives or property in India, any  
rebate of the whole or part of the commission payable or any rebate of the  
premium shown on the policy, nor shall any person taking out or renewing or  
continuing a policy accept any rebate, except such rebate as may be 
allowed in accordance with the published prospectuses or tables of the 
insurer.
2)  Any person making default in complying with the provisions of this  
section shall be liable for a penalty which may extend to ten lakh rupees.
 Various Sections of the Insurance Act, 1938, applicable to LIC to apply as 
amended from time to time.
 This product brochure gives only salient features of the plan. For further 
details please refer to the Policy document on our website www.licindia.in 
or contact our nearest Branch Office.
 It is suggested to read and understand other similar products available 
with LIC of India to assess the suitability of the appropriate product as per  
individual needs.
 To purchase the policy online please log on to www.licindia.in.
BEWARE OF SPURIOUS PHONE CALLS AND FICTITIOUS/
FRAUDULENT OFFERS
IRDAI is not involved in activities like selling insurance policies, announcing  
bonus or investment of premiums. Public receiving such phone calls are  
requested to lodge a police complaint.
 
6
 Annexure 
List of Critical Illnesses
1. CANCER OF SPECIFIED SEVERITY
I. A malignant tumor characterized by the uncontrolled growth and spread 
of malignant cells with invasion and destruction of normal tissues.  
This diagnosis must be supported by histological evidence of malignancy. 
The term cancer includes leukemia, lymphoma and sarcoma.
II. The following are excluded –
 i. All tumors which are histologically described as carcinoma in situ,  
benign, pre- malignant, borderline malignant, low malignant potential,  
neoplasm of unknown behavior, or non-invasive, including but not  
limited to: Carcinoma in situ of breasts, Cervical dysplasia CIN-1,  
CIN -2 and CIN-3.
 ii. Any non-melanoma skin carcinoma unless there is evidence of  
metastases to lymph nodes or beyond;
 iii. Malignant melanoma that has not caused invasion beyond the  
epidermis;
 iv. All tumors of the prostate unless histologically classified as having a  
Gleason score greater than 6 or having progressed to at least clinical 
TNM classification T2N0M0
 v. All Thyroid cancers histologically classified as T1N0M0 (TNM  
Classification) or below;
 vi. Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia less than RAI stage 3
 vii. Non-invasive papillary cancer of the bladder histologically described 
as TaN0M0 or of a lesser classification,
 viii. All Gastro-Intestinal Stromal Tumors histologically classified as 
T1N0M0 (TNM Classification) or below and with mitotic count of less 
than or equal to 5/50 HPFs;
2. MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION 
 (First Heart Attack of specific severity)
I. The first occurrence of heart attack or myocardial infarction, which means 
the death of a portion of the heart muscle as a result of inadequate blood 
supply to the relevant area.
 The diagnosis for Myocardial Infarction should be evidenced by all of the  
following criteria:
 i. A history of typical clinical symptoms consistent with the diagnosis of 
acute myocardial infarction (For e.g. typical chest pain)
 ii. New characteristic electrocardiogram changes
 iii. Elevation of infarction specific enzymes, Troponins or other specific 
biochemical markers.
II. The following are excluded:
 i. Other acute Coronary Syndromes
 ii. Any type of angina pectoris
 iii. A rise in cardiac biomarkers or Troponin T or I in absence of overt  
ischemic heart disease OR following an intra-arterial cardiac  
procedure.
3. OPEN CHEST CABG
I. The actual undergoing of heart surgery to correct blockage or narrowing 
in one or more coronary artery(s), by coronary artery bypass grafting 
done via a sternotomy (cutting through the breast bone) or minimally 
invasive keyhole coronary artery bypass procedures. The diagnosis must 
7
be supported by a coronary angiography and the realization of surgery has 
to be confirmed by a cardiologist.
II. The following are excluded:
i. Angioplasty and/or any other intra-arterial procedures
4. OPEN HEART REPLACEMENT OR REPAIR OF HEART VALVES
I. The actual undergoing of open-heart valve surgery is to replace or repair one 
or more heart valves, as a consequence of defects in, abnormalities of, or  
disease-affected cardiac valve(s). The diagnosis of the valve abnormality 
must be supported by an echocardiography and the realization of surgery 
has to be confirmed by a specialist medical practitioner. Catheter based 
techniques including but not limited to, balloon valvotomy/valvuloplasty 
are excluded.
5. COMA OF SPECIFIED SEVERITY
I. A state of unconsciousness with no reaction or response to external stimuli 
or internal needs. This diagnosis must be supported by evidence of all of 
the following:
 i. no response to external stimuli continuously for at least 96 hours;
 ii. life support measures are necessary to sustain life; and
 iii. permanent neurological deficit which must be assessed at least  
30 days after the onset of the coma.
II. The condition has to be confirmed by a specialist medical practitioner. 
Coma resulting directly from alcohol or drug abuse is excluded.
6. KIDNEY FAILURE REQUIRING REGULAR DIALYSIS
I. End stage renal disease presenting as chronic irreversible failure of both  
kidneys to function, as a result of which either regular renal dialysis  
(haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis) is instituted or renal transplantation 
is carried out. Diagnosis has to be confirmed by a specialist medical  
practitioner.
7. STROKE RESULTING IN PERMANENT SYMPTOMS
I. Any cerebrovascular incident producing permanent neurological sequelae. 
This includes infarction of brain tissue, thrombosis in an intracranial vessel, 
haemorrhage and embolisation from an extracranial source. Diagnosis 
has to be confirmed by a specialist medical practitioner and evidenced by 
typical clinical symptoms as well as typical findings in CT Scan or MRI of 
the brain. Evidence of permanent neurological deficit lasting for at least 3 
months has to be produced.
II. The following are excluded:
 i. Transient ischemic attacks (TIA)
 ii. Traumatic injury of the brain
 iii. Vascular disease affecting only the eye or optic nerve or vestibular 
functions.
8. MAJOR ORGAN /BONE MARROW TRANSPLANT
I. The actual undergoing of a transplant of:
 i. One of the following human organs: heart, lung, liver, kidney,  
pancreas, that resulted from irreversible end-stage failure of the  
relevant organ, or
 ii. Human bone marrow using haematopoietic stem cells. The undergoing  
of a transplant has to be confirmed by a specialist medical practitioner.
II. The following are excluded:
 i. Other stem-cell transplants
 ii. Where only islets of langerhans are transplanted
8
9. PERMANENT PARALYSIS OF LIMBS
I. Total and irreversible loss of use of two or more limbs as a result of injury 
or disease of the brain or spinal cord. A specialist medical practitioner must 
be of the opinion that the paralysis will be permanent with no hope of 
recovery and must be present for more than 3 months.
10. MOTOR NEURON DISEASE WITH PERMANENT SYMPTOMS
I. Motor neuron disease diagnosed by a specialist medical practitioner as  
spinal muscular atrophy, progressive bulbar palsy, amyotrophic lateral  
sclerosis or primary lateral sclerosis. There must be progressive  
degeneration of corticospinal tracts and anterior horn cells or bulbar  
efferent neurons. There must be current significant and permanent 
functional neurological impairment with objective evidence of motor 
dysfunction that has persisted for a continuous period of at least 3 months.
11. MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS WITH PERSISTING SYMPTOMS
I. The unequivocal diagnosis of Definite Multiple Sclerosis confirmed and  
evidenced by all of the following:
 i. investigations including typical MRI findings which unequivocally  
confirm the diagnosis to be multiple sclerosis and
 ii. there must be current clinical impairment of motor or sensory 
function, which must have persisted for a continuous period of at least 
6 months.
II. Neurological damage due to Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is 
excluded.
12. BENIGN BRAIN TUMOR
I. Benign brain tumor is defined as a life threatening, non-cancerous tumor in 
the brain, cranial nerves or meninges within the skull. The presence of the 
underlying tumor must be confirmed by imaging studies such as CT scan or 
MRI.
II. This brain tumor must result in at least one of the following and must be 
confirmed by the relevant medical specialist.
 i. Permanent Neurological deficit with persisting clinical symptoms for a 
continuous period of at least 90 consecutive days or
 ii. Undergone surgical resection or radiation therapy to treat the brain  
tumor.
III. The following conditions are excluded:
 Cysts, Granulomas, malformations in the arteries or veins of the brain,  
hematomas, abscesses, pituitary tumors, tumors of skull bones and tumors 
of the spinal cord.
13. BLINDNESS
I. Total, permanent and irreversible loss of all vision in both eyes as a result of 
illness or accident.
II. The Blindness is evidenced by:
 i. corrected visual acuity being 3/60 or less in both eyes or ;
 ii. the field of vision being less than 10 degrees in both eyes.
III. The diagnosis of blindness must be confirmed and must not be correctable 
by aids or surgical procedure.
14. END STAGE LUNG FAILURE
I. End stage lung disease, causing chronic respiratory failure, as confirmed 
and evidenced by all of the following:
i. FEV1 test results consistently less than 1 litre measured on 3 occasions 3 
months apart; and
9
ii. Requiring continuous permanent supplementary oxygen therapy for  
hypoxemia; and
iii. Arterial blood gas analysis with partial oxygen pressure of 55mmHg or less 
(PaO2 < 55mmHg); and
iv. Dyspnea at rest.
15. END STAGE LIVER FAILURE
I. Permanent and irreversible failure of liver function that has resulted in all 
three of the following:
 Permanent jaundice; and
 Ascites; and
 Hepatic encephalopathy.
II. Liver failure secondary to drug or alcohol abuse is excluded.
16. LOSS OF SPEECH
I. Total and irrecoverable loss of the ability to speak as a result of injury or 
disease to the vocal cords. The inability to speak must be established for 
a continuous period of 12 months. This diagnosis must be supported by  
medical evidence furnished by an Ear, Nose, Throat (ENT) specialist.
17. LOSS OF LIMBS
I. The physical separation of two or more limbs, at or above the wrist or  
ankle level limbs as a result of injury or disease. This will include medically  
necessary amputation necessitated by injury or disease. The separation 
has to be permanent without any chance of surgical correction. Loss of 
Limbs resulting directly or indirectly from self-inflicted injury, alcohol or 
drug abuse is excluded.
18. MAJOR HEAD TRAUMA
I. Accidental head injury resulting in permanent Neurological deficit to be  
assessed no sooner than 3 months from the date of the accident. This  
diagnosis must be supported by unequivocal findings on Magnetic  
Resonance Imaging, Computerized Tomography, or other reliable imaging 
techniques. The accident must be caused solely and directly by accidental, 
violent, external and visible means and independently of all other causes.
II. The Accidental Head injury must result in an inability to perform at 
least three (3) of the following Activities of Daily Living either with or  
without the use of mechanical equipment, special devices or other aids and  
adaptations in use for disabled persons. For the purpose of this benefit, the  
word “permanent” shall mean beyond the scope of recovery with current 
medical knowledge and technology.
III. The Activities of Daily Living are:
 i. Washing: the ability to wash in the bath or shower (including getting 
into and out of the bath or shower) or wash satisfactorily by other 
means;
 ii. Dressing: the ability to put on, take off, secure and unfasten all  
garments and, as appropriate, any braces, artificial limbs or other  
surgical appliances;
 iii. Transferring: the ability to move from a bed to an upright chair or  
wheelchair and vice versa;
 iv. Mobility: the ability to move indoors from room to room on level  
surfaces;
 v. Toileting: the ability to use the lavatory or otherwise manage bowel 
and bladder functions so as to maintain a satisfactory level of personal  
hygiene;
 vi. Feeding: the ability to feed oneself once food has been prepared and 
made available.
10
IV. The following are excluded:
 i. Spinal cord injury;
19. PRIMARY (IDIOPATHIC) PULMONARY HYPERTENSION
I. An unequivocal diagnosis of Primary (Idiopathic) Pulmonary Hypertension 
by a Cardiologist or specialist in respiratory medicine with evidence of 
right ventricular enlargement and the pulmonary artery pressure above 30 
mm of Hg on Cardiac Cauterization. There must be permanent irreversible 
physical impairment to the degree of at least Class IV of the New York Heart 
Association Classification of cardiac impairment.
II. The NYHA Classification of Cardiac Impairment are as follows:
 i. Class III: Marked limitation of physical activity. Comfortable at rest, 
but less than ordinary activity causes symptoms.
 ii. Class IV: Unable to engage in any physical activity without discomfort. 
Symptoms may be present even at rest.
 III. Pulmonary hypertension associated with lung disease, chronic 
hypoventilation, pulmonary thromboembolic disease, drugs and 
toxins, diseases of the left side of the heart, congenital heart disease 
and any secondary cause are specifically excluded.
20. THIRD DEGREE BURNS
I. There must be third-degree burns with scarring that cover at least 20% of 
the body’s surface area. The diagnosis must confirm the total area involved 
using standardized, clinically accepted, body surface area charts covering 
20% of the body surface area.
11
Registered Office:
Life Insurance Corporation of India 
Central Office, Yogakshema,
Jeevan Bima Marg, Mumbai – 400021.
Website: www.licindia.in
Registration Number: 512